README.md, before:

# Swarm: a Docker-native clustering system

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/docker/swarm?status.png)](https://godoc.org/github.com/docker/swarm)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/docker/swarm.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/docker/swarm)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/docker/swarm/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/docker/swarm)

![Docker Swarm Logo](logo.png?raw=true "Docker Swarm Logo")

Docker Swarm is native clustering for Docker. It turns a pool of Docker hosts
into a single, virtual host.

Swarm serves the standard Docker API, so any tool which already communicates
with a Docker daemon can use Swarm to transparently scale to multiple hosts:
Dokku, Compose, Krane, Flynn, Deis, DockerUI, Shipyard, Drone, Jenkins... and,
of course, the Docker client itself.

Like other Docker projects, Swarm follows the "batteries included but removable"
principle. It ships with a set of simple scheduling backends out of the box, and as
initial development settles, an API will be developed to enable pluggable backends.
The goal is to provide a smooth out-of-the-box experience for simple use cases, and
allow swapping in more powerful backends, like Mesos, for large scale production
deployments.

## Installation and documentation

Full documentation [is available here](http://docs.docker.com/swarm/).

## Development installation

You can download and install from source instead of using the Docker
image. Ensure you have golang, godep and the git client installed.

**For example, on Ubuntu you'd run:**

```bash
$ apt-get install golang git
$ go get github.com/tools/godep
```

You may need to set `$GOPATH`, e.g `mkdir ~/gocode; export GOPATH=~/gocode`.

**For example, on Mac OS X you'd run:**

```bash
$ brew install go
$ export GOPATH=~/go
$ export PATH=$PATH:~/go/bin
$ go get github.com/tools/godep
```

Then install the `swarm` binary:

```bash
$ mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/docker/
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/docker/
$ git clone https://github.com/docker/swarm
$ cd swarm
$ godep go install .
```

From here, you can follow the instructions [in the main documentation](http://docs.docker.com/swarm/),
replacing `docker run swarm` with just `swarm`.

## Participating

You can contribute to Docker Swarm in several different ways:

  - If you have comments, questions, or want to use your knowledge to help others, come join the conversation on IRC. You can reach us at #docker-swarm on Freenode.

  - To report a problem or request a feature, please [file an issue](ISSUE-TRIAGE.md)

  - Of course, we welcome pull requests and patches. For information on making feature requests, follow the process suggested here.

Finally, if you want to see what we have for the future and learn more about our release cycles, all this information is detailed on the [wiki](https://github.com/docker/swarm/wiki)


## Creators

**Andrea Luzzardi**

- <http://twitter.com/aluzzardi>
- <http://github.com/aluzzardi>

**Victor Vieux**

- <http://twitter.com/vieux>
- <http://github.com/vieux>

## Copyright and license

Code and documentation copyright 2014-2015 Docker, inc. Code released under the
Apache 2.0 license.

Docs released under Creative commons.

Commit message:

Add `$GOPATH/bin` setup export path
I've seen that I also needed to set `$GOPATH/bin` folder in my Linux path environment, e.g `export PATH="${PATH}:${GOPATH}/bin"`
Otherwise the command godep go install . would not work properly.

README.md, after:

# Swarm: a Docker-native clustering system

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/docker/swarm?status.png)](https://godoc.org/github.com/docker/swarm)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/docker/swarm.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/docker/swarm)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/docker/swarm/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/docker/swarm)

![Docker Swarm Logo](logo.png?raw=true "Docker Swarm Logo")

Docker Swarm is native clustering for Docker. It turns a pool of Docker hosts
into a single, virtual host.

Swarm serves the standard Docker API, so any tool which already communicates
with a Docker daemon can use Swarm to transparently scale to multiple hosts:
Dokku, Compose, Krane, Flynn, Deis, DockerUI, Shipyard, Drone, Jenkins... and,
of course, the Docker client itself.

Like other Docker projects, Swarm follows the "batteries included but removable"
principle. It ships with a set of simple scheduling backends out of the box, and as
initial development settles, an API will be developed to enable pluggable backends.
The goal is to provide a smooth out-of-the-box experience for simple use cases, and
allow swapping in more powerful backends, like Mesos, for large scale production
deployments.

## Installation and documentation

Full documentation [is available here](http://docs.docker.com/swarm/).

## Development installation

You can download and install from source instead of using the Docker
image. Ensure you have golang, godep and the git client installed.

**For example, on Ubuntu you'd run:**

```bash
$ apt-get install golang git
$ go get github.com/tools/godep
```

You may need to set `$GOPATH`, e.g `mkdir ~/gocode; export GOPATH=~/gocode`.
You may also need to set `$GOPATH/bin` folder in your path environment, e.g `export PATH="${PATH}:${GOPATH}/bin"`


**For example, on Mac OS X you'd run:**

```bash
$ brew install go
$ export GOPATH=~/go
$ export PATH=$PATH:~/go/bin
$ go get github.com/tools/godep
```

Then install the `swarm` binary:

```bash
$ mkdir -p $GOPATH/src/github.com/docker/
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/docker/
$ git clone https://github.com/docker/swarm
$ cd swarm
$ godep go install .
```

From here, you can follow the instructions [in the main documentation](http://docs.docker.com/swarm/),
replacing `docker run swarm` with just `swarm`.

## Participating

You can contribute to Docker Swarm in several different ways:

  - If you have comments, questions, or want to use your knowledge to help others, come join the conversation on IRC. You can reach us at #docker-swarm on Freenode.

  - To report a problem or request a feature, please [file an issue](ISSUE-TRIAGE.md)

  - Of course, we welcome pull requests and patches. For information on making feature requests, follow the process suggested here.

Finally, if you want to see what we have for the future and learn more about our release cycles, all this information is detailed on the [wiki](https://github.com/docker/swarm/wiki)


## Creators

**Andrea Luzzardi**

- <http://twitter.com/aluzzardi>
- <http://github.com/aluzzardi>

**Victor Vieux**

- <http://twitter.com/vieux>
- <http://github.com/vieux>

## Copyright and license

Code and documentation copyright 2014-2015 Docker, inc. Code released under the
Apache 2.0 license.

Docs released under Creative commons.
