discovery/README.md, before:

---
page_title: Docker Swarm discovery
page_description: Swarm discovery
page_keywords: docker, swarm, clustering, discovery
---

# Discovery

Docker Swarm comes with multiple Discovery backends.

## Backends

### Hosted Discovery with Docker Hub

First we create a cluster.

```bash
# create a cluster
$ swarm create
6856663cdefdec325839a4b7e1de38e8 # <- this is your unique <cluster_id>
```

Then we create each node and join them to the cluster.

```bash
# on each of your nodes, start the swarm agent
#  <node_ip> doesn't have to be public (eg. 192.168.0.X),
#  as long as the swarm manager can access it.
$ swarm join --advertise=<node_ip:2375> token://<cluster_id>
```

Finally, we start the Swarm manager. This can be on any machine or even
your laptop.

```bash
$ swarm manage -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> token://<cluster_id>
```

You can then use regular Docker commands to interact with your swarm.

```bash
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> info
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> run ...
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> ps
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> logs ...
...
```

You can also list the nodes in your cluster.

```bash
swarm list token://<cluster_id>
<node_ip:2375>
```

### Using a static file describing the cluster

For each of your nodes, add a line to a file. The node IP address
doesn't need to be public as long the Swarm manager can access it.

```bash
echo <node_ip1:2375> >> /tmp/my_cluster
echo <node_ip2:2375> >> /tmp/my_cluster
echo <node_ip3:2375> >> /tmp/my_cluster
```

Then start the Swarm manager on any machine.

```bash
swarm manage -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> file:///tmp/my_cluster
```

And then use the regular Docker commands.

```bash
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> info
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> run ...
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> ps
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> logs ...
...
```

You can list the nodes in your cluster.

```bash
$ swarm list file:///tmp/my_cluster
<node_ip1:2375>
<node_ip2:2375>
<node_ip3:2375>
```

### Using etcd

On each of your nodes, start the Swarm agent. The node IP address
doesn't have to be public as long as the swarm manager can access it.

```bash
swarm join --advertise=<node_ip:2375> etcd://<etcd_ip>/<path>
```

Start the manager on any machine or your laptop.

```bash
swarm manage -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> etcd://<etcd_ip>/<path>
```

And then use the regular Docker commands.

```bash
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> info
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> run ...
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> ps
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> logs ...
...
```

You can list the nodes in your cluster.

```bash
swarm list etcd://<etcd_ip>/<path>
<node_ip:2375>
```

### Using consul

On each of your nodes, start the Swarm agent. The node IP address
doesn't need to be public as long as the Swarm manager can access it.

```bash
swarm join --advertise=<node_ip:2375> consul://<consul_addr>/<path>
```

Start the manager on any machine or your laptop.

```bash
swarm manage -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> consul://<consul_addr>/<path>
```

And then use the regular Docker commands.

```bash
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> info
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> run ...
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> ps
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> logs ...
...
```

You can list the nodes in your cluster.

```bash
swarm list consul://<consul_addr>/<path>
<node_ip:2375>
```

### Using zookeeper

On each of your nodes, start the Swarm agent. The node IP doesn't have
to be public as long as the swarm manager can access it.

```bash
swarm join --advertise=<node_ip:2375> zk://<zookeeper_addr1>,<zookeeper_addr2>/<path>
```

Start the manager on any machine or your laptop.

```bash
swarm manage -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> zk://<zookeeper_addr1>,<zookeeper_addr2>/<path>
```

You can then use the regular Docker commands.

```bash
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> info
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> run ...
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> ps
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> logs ...
...
```

You can list the nodes in the cluster.

```bash
swarm list zk://<zookeeper_addr1>,<zookeeper_addr2>/<path>
<node_ip:2375>
```

### Using a static list of IP addresses

Start the manager on any machine or your laptop

```bash
swarm manage -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> nodes://<node_ip1:2375>,<node_ip2:2375>
```

Or

```bash
swarm manage -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> <node_ip1:2375>,<node_ip2:2375>
```

Then use the regular Docker commands.

```bash
docker -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> info
docker -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> run ...
docker -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> ps
docker -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> logs ...
...
```

### Range pattern for IP addresses

The `file` and `nodes` discoveries support a range pattern to specify IP
addresses, i.e., `10.0.0.[10:200]` will be a list of nodes starting from
`10.0.0.10` to `10.0.0.200`.

For example for the `file` discovery method.

```bash
$ echo "10.0.0.[11:100]:2375"   >> /tmp/my_cluster
$ echo "10.0.1.[15:20]:2375"    >> /tmp/my_cluster
$ echo "192.168.1.2:[2:20]375"  >> /tmp/my_cluster
```

Then start the manager.

```bash
swarm manage -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> file:///tmp/my_cluster
```

And for the `nodes` discovery method.

```bash
swarm manage -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> "nodes://10.0.0.[10:200]:2375,10.0.1.[2:250]:2375"
```

## Contributing a new discovery backend

Contributing a new discovery backend is easy, simply implement this
interface:

```go
type Discovery interface {
     Initialize(string, int) error
     Fetch() ([]string, error)
     Watch(WatchCallback)
     Register(string) error
}
```

### Initialize

The parameters are `discovery` location without the scheme and a heartbeat (in seconds).

### Fetch

Returns the list of all the nodes from the discovery.

### Watch

Triggers an update (`Fetch`). This can happen either via a timer (like
`token`) or use backend specific features (like `etcd`).

### Register

Add a new node to the discovery service.

## Docker Swarm documentation index

- [User guide](./index.md)
- [Scheduler strategies](./scheduler/strategy.md)
- [Scheduler filters](./scheduler/filter.md)
- [Swarm API](./API.md)

Commit message:

Add reliance on external internet connectivity
Signed-off-by: Morgan Bauer <mbauer@us.ibm.com>
(cherry picked from commit f6caa46c9829a340101a3dbb99e41e5877b0f658)

discovery/README.md, after:

---
page_title: Docker Swarm discovery
page_description: Swarm discovery
page_keywords: docker, swarm, clustering, discovery
---

# Discovery

Docker Swarm comes with multiple Discovery backends.

## Backends

You use a hosted discovery service with Docker Swarm. The service
maintains a list of IPs in your swam. There are several available
services, such as `etcd`, `consul` and `zookeeper` depending on what
is best suited for your environment. You can even use a static
file. Docker Hub also provides a hosted discovery service which you
can use.

### Hosted Discovery with Docker Hub

This example uses the hosted discovery service on Docker Hub. Using
Docker Hub's hosted discovery service requires that each node in the
swarm is connected to the internet. To create your swarm:

First we create a cluster.

```bash
# create a cluster
$ swarm create
6856663cdefdec325839a4b7e1de38e8 # <- this is your unique <cluster_id>
```

Then we create each node and join them to the cluster.

```bash
# on each of your nodes, start the swarm agent
#  <node_ip> doesn't have to be public (eg. 192.168.0.X),
#  as long as the swarm manager can access it.
$ swarm join --advertise=<node_ip:2375> token://<cluster_id>
```

Finally, we start the Swarm manager. This can be on any machine or even
your laptop.

```bash
$ swarm manage -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> token://<cluster_id>
```

You can then use regular Docker commands to interact with your swarm.

```bash
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> info
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> run ...
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> ps
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> logs ...
...
```

You can also list the nodes in your cluster.

```bash
swarm list token://<cluster_id>
<node_ip:2375>
```

### Using a static file describing the cluster

For each of your nodes, add a line to a file. The node IP address
doesn't need to be public as long the Swarm manager can access it.

```bash
echo <node_ip1:2375> >> /tmp/my_cluster
echo <node_ip2:2375> >> /tmp/my_cluster
echo <node_ip3:2375> >> /tmp/my_cluster
```

Then start the Swarm manager on any machine.

```bash
swarm manage -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> file:///tmp/my_cluster
```

And then use the regular Docker commands.

```bash
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> info
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> run ...
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> ps
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> logs ...
...
```

You can list the nodes in your cluster.

```bash
$ swarm list file:///tmp/my_cluster
<node_ip1:2375>
<node_ip2:2375>
<node_ip3:2375>
```

### Using etcd

On each of your nodes, start the Swarm agent. The node IP address
doesn't have to be public as long as the swarm manager can access it.

```bash
swarm join --advertise=<node_ip:2375> etcd://<etcd_ip>/<path>
```

Start the manager on any machine or your laptop.

```bash
swarm manage -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> etcd://<etcd_ip>/<path>
```

And then use the regular Docker commands.

```bash
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> info
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> run ...
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> ps
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> logs ...
...
```

You can list the nodes in your cluster.

```bash
swarm list etcd://<etcd_ip>/<path>
<node_ip:2375>
```

### Using consul

On each of your nodes, start the Swarm agent. The node IP address
doesn't need to be public as long as the Swarm manager can access it.

```bash
swarm join --advertise=<node_ip:2375> consul://<consul_addr>/<path>
```

Start the manager on any machine or your laptop.

```bash
swarm manage -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> consul://<consul_addr>/<path>
```

And then use the regular Docker commands.

```bash
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> info
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> run ...
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> ps
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> logs ...
...
```

You can list the nodes in your cluster.

```bash
swarm list consul://<consul_addr>/<path>
<node_ip:2375>
```

### Using zookeeper

On each of your nodes, start the Swarm agent. The node IP doesn't have
to be public as long as the swarm manager can access it.

```bash
swarm join --advertise=<node_ip:2375> zk://<zookeeper_addr1>,<zookeeper_addr2>/<path>
```

Start the manager on any machine or your laptop.

```bash
swarm manage -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> zk://<zookeeper_addr1>,<zookeeper_addr2>/<path>
```

You can then use the regular Docker commands.

```bash
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> info
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> run ...
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> ps
docker -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> logs ...
...
```

You can list the nodes in the cluster.

```bash
swarm list zk://<zookeeper_addr1>,<zookeeper_addr2>/<path>
<node_ip:2375>
```

### Using a static list of IP addresses

Start the manager on any machine or your laptop

```bash
swarm manage -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> nodes://<node_ip1:2375>,<node_ip2:2375>
```

Or

```bash
swarm manage -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> <node_ip1:2375>,<node_ip2:2375>
```

Then use the regular Docker commands.

```bash
docker -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> info
docker -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> run ...
docker -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> ps
docker -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> logs ...
...
```

### Range pattern for IP addresses

The `file` and `nodes` discoveries support a range pattern to specify IP
addresses, i.e., `10.0.0.[10:200]` will be a list of nodes starting from
`10.0.0.10` to `10.0.0.200`.

For example for the `file` discovery method.

```bash
$ echo "10.0.0.[11:100]:2375"   >> /tmp/my_cluster
$ echo "10.0.1.[15:20]:2375"    >> /tmp/my_cluster
$ echo "192.168.1.2:[2:20]375"  >> /tmp/my_cluster
```

Then start the manager.

```bash
swarm manage -H tcp://<swarm_ip:swarm_port> file:///tmp/my_cluster
```

And for the `nodes` discovery method.

```bash
swarm manage -H <swarm_ip:swarm_port> "nodes://10.0.0.[10:200]:2375,10.0.1.[2:250]:2375"
```

## Contributing a new discovery backend

Contributing a new discovery backend is easy, simply implement this
interface:

```go
type Discovery interface {
     Initialize(string, int) error
     Fetch() ([]string, error)
     Watch(WatchCallback)
     Register(string) error
}
```

### Initialize

The parameters are `discovery` location without the scheme and a heartbeat (in seconds).

### Fetch

Returns the list of all the nodes from the discovery.

### Watch

Triggers an update (`Fetch`). This can happen either via a timer (like
`token`) or use backend specific features (like `etcd`).

### Register

Add a new node to the discovery service.

## Docker Swarm documentation index

- [User guide](./index.md)
- [Scheduler strategies](./scheduler/strategy.md)
- [Scheduler filters](./scheduler/filter.md)
- [Swarm API](./API.md)
